I am convinced you already
understand what segmentation
by behavior is.
We will identify different
segments of current or potential
customers based on the interactions
we have had with
them.
And the next question is, well, but
how will we segment, that is,
what kind of segments or what information
will we analyze?
Here the possibilities are
endless.
As I have said, so much information
is generated, so many different
types of interactions are generated
with customers that we can
make very many different
segmentations.
And sometimes certain lists or classifications
are given.
But I think it makes no sense.
What I want to share is a series
of examples with you and these examples
will illustrate you, will help
you visualize a little what kind
of segmentation we are doing
companies and what are the benefits
of doing it.
Let’s start with a classic
segmentation that has been done
all life and that has been more
common in B2B models.
It is segmentation based on
the value that customers generate.
I give you an example of segmentation
A, B, C.
What is this of value?
So let’s segment, let’s think
of a pharmaceutical
lab that sells through pharmacies.
Therefore, your customers are pharmacies
and what it does is segment
it to pharmacies based on
the sales they are generating,
the volume of business they
are generating.
Then there are the pharmacies A, which
are, let us put a 10% of the total,
the pharmacies B and the pharmacies
C.
Why segment all your customers
according to the value they
generate?
To prioritize, to allocate the most
and best resources to the pharmacies
A.
For example, the best
commercials or pharmacies are
visited more frequently
within the routes or offered
to others, etc.
You probably understand the concept.
We will allocate resources
to our best customers.
We can also segment, and it is
something common, based on a different
criterion, although very related
to the above, which can be the
recurrence, the number of times
they buy us or the fidelity,
whether they are loyal customers
or not, or the engagement
we have with customers.
I have mentioned three criteria,
but they are quite related.
And I’ll give you the example
of airlines, which almost
all set up a number of segments
and set levels and offer different
services to the most loyal customers.
Or, for example, let’s think of an
application like Tulotero.
Tulotero can segment its users
according to the frequency
of use or the cost that gives
equal.
You can also segment into heavy users,
medium users or light users.
Adapt the communication
to each segment.
Or, for example, with customers
who in a NPS satisfaction
survey, for example, are detractors,
have put the lowest scores,
with them you can have
tailored actions.
Why is?
Because they are risks.
You could call them all.
It is simply an example of how
we segment according to
loyalty, satisfaction, engagement.
We are determining adapted
actions.
With our best customers.
We look at it as we look at it.
For loyalty, for loyalty,
for satisfaction.
Well, we can set points
or ask them to help us with
testimonies.
You can be a member of
a club, etc.
With our worst customers or more dissatisfied,
because all the opposite.
Send them fewer emails
offering you other products,
send them more emails providing
support, call them by phone, etc.
As you can see, there are different types
of actions that we can take.
Another way of segmenting
by behavior that is currently used
by all companies, all companies
that we capture in digital
media, is based on the stage
of the conversion funnel
within the funnel, the stage
in which each of the customers
is.
This is what we do at the Power MBA.
If we think of the funnel, we have
people who have visited our
website, people who have
left us the data, people who
have interacted with us, etc.
And this segmentation allows us
to address them in a totally
different way, through different
media, with different messages.
Look, this I share is illustrative,
simply a screen-up of the
different actions, a flow
or a tree, with different
actions based on different
interactions.
As you can see, it is very broad.
And as a last example, I’ll
put a concept called Direct
Response Marketing, which is
to bring behavioral segmentation
to an extreme.
And this we learned from Frank Kern,
who is a marketing expert
in the United States.
And what Frank Kern proposes and
what he does is actions like,
he has many interactions with his customers
And if for example in a video, in
a video in which he goes out talking
he that lasts 20 minutes, you have
stopped watching the video before
the minute 5, he segments all those
leads or potential customers
who have stopped watching the video
before that minute 5 and sends
them an email telling him that
you know you have stopped watching
the video but you have lost everything
that From the interactions
with customers, what we do is
identify segments, make
adapted actions that
ultimately allow us to
optimize, allow us to sell
more to current customers,
allow us to optimize the
capture, campaigns, etc.